# Tiny Language Simple Compiler Based on C++

Compilers Principles related project, BUCT, 2023 spring.

This project is an implementation of a simple compiler for the Tiny language using C++. The compiler consists of two main components: a Scanner (lexical analyzer) and a Parser (syntax analyzer). It can transform Tiny language source code into an abstract syntax tree and perform basic syntax checking.

## Features

- Scanner: Converts input Tiny language source code into a sequence of tokens.
- Parser: Performs basic syntax validation and error checking on the input source code based on the token sequence generated by the Scanner

## Environment

- Programming Language: C++
- Development Environment: Code::Blocks 20.03
- Operating System: Windows 10

## Usage

1. Clone or download the project source code to your local machine.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/sternenR/TINY-Simple-Compiler.git
```

2. Navigate to the root directory of the project.

```shell
cd TINY-Simple-Compiler
```

3. Compile Scanner.cpp.

```shell
g++ Scanner.cpp -o Scanner.exe
```

4. Run Scanner.exe and specify the input file input.txt.

```shell
./Scanner.exe input.txt
```

This will generate an output file named `tokendone.txt` for further steps.

5. Compile LALR(1).cpp.

```shell
g++ LALR(1).cpp -o LALR(1).exe
```

6. Run LALR(1).exe and specify the input file tokendone.txt.

```shell
./LALR(1).exe tokendone.txt
```

Please make sure to execute the compilation and execution commands while being in the root directory of the project.


## Example Code

In `input.txt`, we provide some sample code written in the Tiny language that you can use to test and validate the functionality of the compiler.

## Results and Limitations

This simple compiler implements basic lexical and syntactic analysis features and can perform basic syntax checking.   
If there is a syntax error in source code, it can locate the error token position. If there is no syntax error, it outputs no error prompt.  

However, it has the following limitations:

- Limited functionality of the Scanner: The Scanner component of the compiler is more simplistic and may not handle complex language features. It may have difficulty recognizing and tokenizing certain code constructs.
- No support for semantic analysis. The compiler lacks the capability to perform semantic analysis on the input code. This means it does not analyze the meaning or context of the code beyond the basic syntax.
- No support for optimization and target code generation. The compiler does not incorporate any optimization techniques to improve the efficiency of the generated code. Additionally, it does not generate executable target code for specific platforms or architectures.
- Limited recognition of grammar structures, does not support complex language features.
- Error handling may be limited, only able to detect some basic errors. It may not provide detailed error messages or effectively handle all possible error scenarios.


## References
- Alfred V. Aho, Monica S. Lam, Ravi Sethi, Jeffrey D. Ullman - Compilers - Principles, Techniques, and Tools-Pearson_Addison Wesley (2006) 2nd ed
- [Bison 3.8.1](https://www.gnu.org/software/bison/manual/bison.html)
- [WLU, Computer Science 332, Compiler Construction](https://simondlevy.academic.wlu.edu/files/courses/cs332w2004/lectures/23_FEB_2004.pdf)

## Acknowledgments

The implementation of this project is based on learning and understanding compiler theory and has been inspired by relevant resources and tutorials. Thanks to the developers and researchers who have contributed to the field of compiler technology.

If you encounter any issues or have any suggestions for improvements while using this project, please feel free to contact me or submit an issue.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
